Document solc-bin (#10352)
ethereum/solidity: docs/installing-solidity.rst

    pacman -S solidity

> Gentoo Linux has an `Ethereum overlay <https://overlays.gentoo.org/#ethereum>`_ that contains a solidity package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gentoo Linux has an `Ethereum overlay <https://overlays.gentoo.org/#ethereum>`_ that contains a Solidity package.
```

Author: Fixed.

    # eg. Install 0.4.8
    brew install solidity.rb

Static Binaries
===============

We maintain a repository containing static builds of past and current compiler versions for all

> supported platforms at `solc-bin`_. It is also the location where you can find the nightly builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supported platforms at `solc-bin`_. This is also the location where you can find the nightly builds.
```

Author: Fixed.

The repository is not only a quick and easy way for end users to get binaries ready to be used
out-of-the-box but it is also meant to be friendly to third-party tools:

> - The content is mirrored to https://solc-bin.ethereum.org where it can be easily downloaded over

Reviewer 2: I still suggest we should go with something like binaries.soliditylang.org. As you mentioned @cameel, it would be possible just to have both URLs on S3, and both would work, so no need to add redirects either.

Any opinions @chriseth @franzihei ?

Reviewer: Would it mean that we would mirror the content and have it "double" on both sites? I think having something on our domain in addition to the ethereum.org domain is always a good idea generally.

Author: It wouldn't even be mirrored. It would be the same exact Amazon S3 bucket behind both domains. They would be just alternate names for the same thing.

The only complication is that we might need assistance from devops team to generate the right SSL certificate since they control solc-bin.ethereum.org which is currently attached to the bucket. It must be a single SSL certificate valid for both and this might require re-verification with both domains.

Other that that, I see no technical problems. Just maybe that changing the domain again might make people confused about which one is deprecated. But it's already confusing so maybe doing it now is better than having to go through this later again.

Reviewer 2: > But it's already confusing so maybe doing it now is better than having to go through this later again.

Exactly, if our goal is to migrate everything under `soliditylang.org`, this is a good opportunity to do so. We're not going to shut down `solc-bin.ethereum.org` anyhow, but if we are pinging people to update then we should prefer the one with soliditylang.org

Author: Done. It's now binaries.soliditylang.org in the text.

  HTTPS without any authentication, rate limiting or the need to use git.
- Content is served with correct `Content-Type` headers and lenient CORS configuration so that it
  can be directly loaded by tools running in the browser.
- Binaries do not require installation or unpacking (with the exception of older Windows builds
  bundled with necessary DLLs).
- We strive for a high level of backwards-compatibility. Files, once added, are not removed or moved
  without providing a symlink/redirect at the old location. They are also never modified
  in place and should always match the original checksum. The only exception would be broken or
  unusable files with a potential to cause more harm than good if left as is.

> The same binaries are in most cases available on the `Solidity release page on github`_. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same binaries are in most cases available on the `Solidity release page on GitHub`_. The
```

Author: Fixed.

> difference is that we do not generally update old releases. This means that we do not rename them if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
difference is that we do not generally update old releases on the GitHub release page. This means that we do not rename them if
```

Reviewer: Did I understand this right?

Author: Exactly. I didn't want to repeat myself but if it sounds ambiguous to you then it's clearly needed.

Fixed.

the naming convention changes and we do not add builds for platforms that were not supported at the

> time of release. We do it only in ``solc-bin``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time of release. This only happens in ``solc-bin``.
```

Author: Fixed.

> ``solc-bin`` repository contains several top-level directories, each representing a single platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``solc-bin`` repository contains several top-level directories, each representing a single platform.
```

Author: Fixed.

Each one contains a ``list.json`` file listing the available binaries. For example in
``emscripten-wasm32/list.json`` you will find the following information about version 0.7.4:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "path": "solc-emscripten-wasm32-v0.7.4+commit.3f05b770.js",
      "version": "0.7.4",
      "build": "commit.3f05b770",
      "longVersion": "0.7.4+commit.3f05b770",

>       "keccak256": "0x300330ecd127756b824aa13e843cb1f43c473cb22eaf3750d5fb9c99279af8c3",

Reviewer 2: Hmm, didn't we also had a sh256 hash next to this? That is way more useful for anyone downloading a static compiler from here and trying to verify it on CI (as that works with `shasum -a 256 <file>`).

Author: Apparently not. It's definitely not something that was removed recently and I don't see it being there in older revisions of `list.json` either.

There's [sha3sum](https://github.com/maandree/sha3sum) which provides `keccak-256sum` and is available as a package  at least on Arch, Ubuntu and Homebrew, likely on other systems too. I'll mention it. EDIT: Done.

But yeah, `sha256sum` is in `coreutils` so definitely more common.

Author: Do we want this? Should I create an issue?

Reviewer 2: I'd vote for having sha256 as it is ubiquitous, but it shouldn't be a blocker for merging this PR.

Author: Reported in #10379 so I'm marking this as resolved.

  Note that the file might be a symlink, and you will need to resolve it yourself if you are not using
  git to download it or your file system does not support symlinks.
- The binary is also mirrored at https://solc-bin.ethereum.org/emscripten-wasm32/solc-emscripten-wasm32-v0.7.4+commit.3f05b770.js.
  In this case git is not necessary and symlinks are resolved transparently, either by serving a copy
  of the file or returning a HTTP redirect.
- The file is also available on IPFS at `QmTLs5MuLEWXQkths41HiACoXDiH8zxyqBHGFDRSzVE5CS`_.
- The file might in future be available on Swarm at `16c5f09109c793db99fe35f037c6092b061bd39260ee7a677c8a97f18c955ab1`_.
- You can verify the integrity of the binary by comparing its keccak256 hash is equal to ``0x300330ecd127756b824aa13e843cb1f43c473cb22eaf3750d5fb9c99279af8c3``.
  In JavaScript the hash can be computed using `keccak256() function from ethereumjs-util`_.

.. warning::

   Due to the strong backwards compatibility requirement the repository contains some legacy elements
   but you should avoid using them when writing new tools:

   - Use ``emscripten-wasm32/`` (with a fallback to ``emscripten-asmjs/``) instead of ``bin/`` if

>      you want the best performance. Until version 0.6.1 we had been providing only asm.js binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     you want the best performance. Until version 0.6.1 we only provided asm.js binaries.
```

Author: Fixed.

     Starting with 0.6.2 we switched to `WebAssembly builds`_ with much better performance. We have
     rebuilt the older versions for wasm but the original asm.js files remain in ``bin/``.
     The new ones had to be placed in a separate directory to avoid name clashes.
   - Use ``emscripten-asmjs/`` and ``emscripten-wasm32/`` instead of ``bin/`` and ``wasm/`` directories
     if you want to be sure whether you are downloading a wasm or an asm.js binary.
   - Use ``list.json`` instead of ``list.js`` and ``list.txt``. The JSON list format contains all
     the information from the old ones and more.

.. warning::

    The binaries are also available at https://ethereum.github.io/solc-bin/ but this page
    stopped being updated just after the release of version 0.7.2, will not receive any new releases
    or nightly builds for any platform and does not serve the new directory structure, including
    non-emscripten builds.

    If you are using it, please switch to https://solc-bin.ethereum.org, which is a drop-in replacement.

>     This lets up make changes to the underlying hosting in a transparent way and minimize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This allows us to make changes to the underlying hosting in a transparent way and minimize
```

Author: Fixed.

- `Clang <https://clang.llvm.org/>`_, version 3.4+
- `MSVC <https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/>`_, version 2019+

> Prerequisites - MacOS

Reviewer 2: Actually `macOS` is the official styling as of late.

Author: Good to know. I was never sure if I should use `macOS`, `Mac OS`, `MacOS X` or something in between.
